The interpretation of texts is complicated by the fact that ideas take shape in matter. My
words therefore reach you within a specific medium---paper, audio file, or an electronic
text---which serves as a conduit for the transmission of information. Aristotle, in his
*Poetics*, similarly differentiated between the objects or content of art, its medium, and the
mode of mimesis [@aristotle, 90]. Prose describing the way a bird sings, for example, finds its
object of imitation in actual bird songs, further expressed in the medium of written language.
Charlie Parker's style of playing imitated birds musically, through his saxophone, where the
American ornithologist John James Audubon painted his birds in watercolor. Yet even this
distinction between media fails to capture the difference in the modality of perception (and
comprehension also). Of the mode Aristotle mentions only the contrast between an author
"speaking in one's own person" and speaking with "other people engaged" in mimesis.  Imagine,
for example, a film actor turning to the camera to address their audience, thus shifting the
interpretive perspective from an intra-diegetic vantage to an extra-diegetic one. Sit still,
our actor says.  The directive plays with the convention of theater-going.  Contemplated in
somber silence of an art house theater it gains almost a philosophical significance, though I
would prefer to watch it amongst the clamor of a local pub movie night.  Some of you might
similarly prefer to read a novel in the comfort of your own home, while others enjoy the sense
of a community and deep discussion that happens in book clubs, on online forums, or in class.
However we read, a text in its abstract sense must pass into print to become a reified
object---a book thing. It will take shape on paper or a screen, and once again rarefy into
thought by diffusion into its physiological and social contexts. At first, we simply wanted to
read a book, but in practice, we now must discuss where and when it is to be understood. Where
and when matter in a way that prevents us from talking about meaning without context.

The material conditions of a thought can often be disregarded in favor of its ideational
content. When we refer to Zora Neale Hurston's collection of African-American folklore
published under the title *Mules and Men* in 1935, we denote equally the numerous editions of
the work, published since 1935. This allocation usually implies neither her notes nor her
manuscripts, available in parts at the American Folklife Center in the Library of Congress; at
the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, Yale University; and in the P.K. Yonge Library
of Florida History at the University of Florida.  However, once these documents come into view,
they assert an inexorable pull on the content of the published work. Our awareness of the
auto-ethnographic method at work in Hurston's prose irrevocably changes our perception of the
novel. Rather than seeing it as one thing, we can now perceive a number of related
publications, notes, drafts, and manuscripts, which in their overlapping totality comprise the
general field of the work.  Matter asserts itself through the idea. We are reminded at once of
its palpable effects on abstraction and of its shape-giving influence on the foundations of any
thought.

As a matter of method, to become a materialist, and especially one of a historical ilk, one
must insist on the often inconvenient intrusion of the physical world into the realm of the
ideal. I would prefer to sit back in my armchair and just read Hurston, heeding neither
Gainesville nor New Haven. I would rather forego the messiness of competing manuscripts,
editorial interventions, international editions of the work which slightly alter Hurston's
lexicon, the Harlem Renaissance, her problematic stance toward it, her time at Columbia
University spent with Franz Boas and Margaret Mead, her wealth and her literary patronage, her
poverty, the socio-economic realities of black publishing, or, in her own words, "what white
publishers won't print" (the title of an essay she published in the *Negro Digest* in 1950).
These things interfere with my physical complacency. They force me to stand and to travel. They
fracture the unity of meaning. Where I presumed to interpret and to explain, instead I find a
multiplicity of competing possibilities, errors, and emendations along with my own various
limits and conditions, incommensurate to the lived experience of another. The materialist
method entails hermeneutics embedded and embodied.  To think in one's head is insufficient for
understanding: we must also walk, touch, make, and be discomforted.

## Bertrand Russel in Lahore

In March of 2018, members of our research group and I traveled to Lahore, Pakistan under the
invitation from the Archives and Libraries Department, in Government of the Punjab and the
Punjab Information Technology Board. We were there to present on "Architectures of Knowledge,"
a topic that for me meant the involvement with material culture of print, including the study
of book-sharing communities, do-it-yourself book scanning, and illicit archives. As part of the
week's program, we toured the Civil Secretariat complex which houses the Punjab Archives in the
storied Tomb of Anarkali---a solid, octagonal, building that witnessed the Mughal Empire,
colonial rule, and the partition.

The Punjab Archives mostly contain records related to the socio-economic and political history
of the region, from the nineteenth and twentieth century. On location, we observed library
staff treat a stack of fragile materials in a giant metal autoclave chamber, filled with
poisonous gas to destroy mold and insects. Bundles of government records were packaged in
large, white sacks, labeled in red and blue ink reading "Persian Records," "General Medical,"
and "Revenue Agriculture." Ribboned file folders signalled their provenance in a mixture of
print and cursive, indicating such government agencies as Punjab Civil Secretariat or the Home
Department. An exhibition of rare books and manuscripts was arranged around the tomb itself.
An archive official ushered us into a tall, tiered room, where balconies, ladders, and metal
scaffolding that framed the neat rows of small, square storage compartments extending several
stories upward to the ceiling.

I was invited ostensibly as an expert in the digitization of records, to advise on things like
document scanning, optical character recognition, and sustainable digital preservation
practices. But I was also in a sense trespassing, arriving with no relevant language skills and
having only a cursory familiarity with the region's history. I therefore listened and observed
with a naive heart. Lahore's rich intellectual traditions encompassed multiple, variegated
topographies. The belief in the radical embeddedness of thought prevents us from making
universal generalizations. Specific material contexts necessitate the understanding *in situ*,
where the hardware of intellectual infrastructure meets the software of its ideational content.
In Lahore, as elsewhere, such sites include not only institutional libraries, but also coffee
shops, home kitchens, and outdoor book markets.

At one such location, next to the King Edward Medical University, we met with a book seller
whom I will call Bilal, the proprietor of Bilal Old Books, a small shop specializing in
"medical, engineering, English, Urdu, and Islamic literature." Judging by the extensive
inventory of medical textbooks, his clientele consisted largely of local medical students. The
volumes, many of them in English, were inexpensive though high-quality reproductions of
cutting-edge medical literature published originally in Europe and the United States. Such
textbooks are either not otherwise available in Pakistan or prohibitively expensive. The alley
leading to Bilal's is one of several connecting a small network of translators, printers,
binders, specialty book sellers, who, together support the needs of their community.

A wall of shelves unlike the others in inside the shop caught my attention. Here, a patron
could find the complete works of Bertrand Russel: his Basic Writings published by Routledge
Classics, his autobiography, his *Unpopular Essays* and *History of Western Philosophy*. Bilal
as it turned out was a serious reader of the British philosopher. Although the books did not
sell well, he maintained this well-stocked corner of the store in hopes of promoting Russel's
thought.

On the way out, after thanking Bilal for his time and hospitality, I purchased a crisp,
off-brand copy of Russel's *On Education*, clearly designated on the cover as a "Special Indian
Edition." Such editions serve a two-fold function for the publisher. First, the British- or
American-specific English lexicon may be substituted for its equivalent in International
English. These changes could also include editorial suggestions specific to the region, such as
the substitution of Imperial for Metric units of measurement. The second function is economic.
Routledge and other publishers sell their wares at a lower price in the South-Asian market,
creating a cost disparity in relation to their North American and Western European
counterparts. To prevent resale and reuse across regional boundaries, publishers subsequently
introduce arbitrary differences into their international editions. A "Special Indian Edition"
of a textbook on organic chemistry, for example, could be paginated in such a way as to make
weekly reading assignments given by an American university instructor difficult to follow.

The US Supreme Court considered a case related to such international editions in 2012, when the
international conglomerate John Wiley & Sons Inc. (brought a suit against Supap Kirtsaeng, a
citizen of Thailand and then a student at the University of California, who resold textbooks
purchased in Thailand in the United States. The case hinged on the question of whether the
"first sale" doctrine can be limited geographically by countervailing copyright claims. The
judgement in favor of Kirtsaeng explained that Section 106 of the US Copyright Act granted the
copyright owner "certain exclusive rights," including those of sale and the transfer of
ownership. However these rights were qualified by several limitations including the principle
of "fair use" and "first sale." The "first sale" principle grants "the owner of a particular
copy," the right to "sell or otherwise dispose of the possession" provided it was "lawfully
made under this title." We can thus imagine owning a vinyl copy of a recent hit record, in a
case where the artist and their music label own the general rights for distribution, but where
the individual also has the right to dispose of this one, specific record in their possession.
The first owns the right to the work of art in the abstract (and therefore to the first sale),
and the second to a singular object of art, and therefore to the second, sale. In plain
language, Kirtsaeng bought a book and sold it as a used book. But what happens when resale goes
global? Wiley argued that the principle of "first sale" did not in fact extend to copies of
their books purchased outside of the United States. On that view, the phrase "under this title"
implied a geographic restriction. The court ultimately ruled in Kirtsaeng's favor, with the
majority of opinion affirming a non-geographic understanding of the clause. The ruling conceded
that its consequences would make the division between foreign and domestic markets through
discriminatory pricing more difficult, if not impossible. However, it also argued that the US
copyright law did not especially entitle such rights in the first place. Subsequent the ruling,
international students were free to continue reselling their books.

I do not know whether Bilal's photocopied editions of Russel's work would be considered legal
copies under the US copyright law. The question is irrelevant to the students of Pakistan in
the pursuit of a quality education. Our discussion concerns the material life of intellectual
works, which, in this case, have passed through the halls of Trinity College in the United
Kingdom, to Rutledge's international offices in New Delhi, and onto a side street of printers
and booksellers in Lahore. The situated nature of this custody chain prevents us from treating
anything like "literary works" as universal constructs. Meaning, at stake in reading, depends
on the environment, transforming in circulation. Multiple communities---in this case: authors,
students, teachers, book sellers, stock holders, and multinational publishers---diverge in
their goals, charters, practices, socio-economic conditions, and histories. They diverge
therefore in their understanding of the work, in a way that cannot be reconciled neatly into a
singular Russel's *On Education*, true for all time and everywhere.

The story of the book, now on my bookshelf, reminds me also of my own superfluous presence in
Pakistan. The Government of Punjab did not need foreign expertise for digitizing their
archives: local communities have already built a robust infrastructure to support their
intellectual activity. Bilal's street-level network is far more engaged in the material life of
book publishing than an average American scholar. But even on this, local level, there exist
institutional and cultural barriers that prevent the Punjab Archives from becoming a unilateral
thing. The object grounds the work, but also fractures it among specific lived sites. My
reading of Russel is now forever informed by walking the streets of Lahore. In total, a
committed materialism leads not to cultural relativism (there are no facts on which we can
agree), but to a congruence of cultures and communities. A text emerges from the overlapping
congruence of divergent materialities. But even this consensus, once materialized, becomes yet
another waypoint on the topography of the work.

## Hypothetical Gun Manufacture

Central to our discussion on materiality so far has been the

It is quite odd, if you think about it, to believe that objects somehow retain an aura or a
trace of their history: "a handkerchief used by Princess Diana," or "the cigar box owned by
President Kennedy." In some real sense, the historical patina covering these objects is only
imagined. President Kennedy's fingerprints and the tears of Princess Diana have long
disappeared from their physical medium. Their trace cannot be reduced to "mere" physical
characteristics: that is, to actual scratches, stains, or molecules, recoverable from the
object. Rather, the object had to "be there" in some way, acquiring a patina of authenticity.
"Having been there" is what gives the object value, sentimental or otherwise, in a condition
that refuses formal reduction to a set of merely material properties. The high price
contemporary society places on authentic artifacts is therefore a type of magical thinking.
Walter Benjamin's famous essay on the work of art in the age of mechanical reproduction appears
to both celebrate and lament the demise of such magic.  "The technique of reproduction detaches
the reproduced object from the domain of tradition," wrote Benjamin. "By making many
reproductions it substitutes a plurality of copies for a unique existence. And in permitting
the reproduction to meet the beholder or listener in his own particular situation, it
reactivates the object reproduced. These two processes lead to a tremendous shattering of
tradition which is the obverse of the contemporary crisis and renewal of mankind"
[@benjamin_work_1969, 217-253]. And yet, for Benjamin, the easy reproducibility of modern art
forms like film and photography also "emancipates the work of art from its parasitical
dependence on ritual" [@benjamin_work_1969, 217-253]. One could read Benjamin's famous essay as
a piece of technological nostalgia, or as an expose on the magic and superstition latent in
modernist art. Crisis or emancipation? Benjamin felt both, and in doing so he captured the
metaphysical anxiety of the modern age. We desire for our Vermeers to stay special but also for
a Vermeer to hang in every home, peering back at us from a multitude of anonymous
reproductions.

The modern world faces the challenge of authenticity, which we have only began to assimilate:
politically, economically, and philosophically. The ubiquitous holographic certificate of
authenticity on a luxury handbag or on a Digital Versatile Disk (DVD) is a cheap band-aid
hiding the immaterial nature of these artifacts. Fashion and software companies are reluctant
to talk publicly about piracy, because the so called "knock-offs" are essentially exact
duplicates, often "leaked" from the very same factories producing the original.

Note that it makes no sense to talk about "what was meant" by the designer of the handbag, the
way textual critic may talk about authorial intention. Nor would it make sense to "correct"
some perceived flaw in the painting by Vermeer. The practice parallel to "textual criticism" in
visual arts is restoration. Although similar to textual criticism in its aims to recover some
notion of the original, crucially, the practice of art restoration takes place without
reproduction. Unlike a critical volume, which essentially reprints the work in its
reconstructed entirety, restoration happens at the site. All "unauthorized" copies constitute a
forgery that competes for attention with the original. One could say that for painting and
handbags "matter is synonymous with meaning," but the sentiment strains at the limits of
critical vocabulary in the tradition that gives us only the binaries of form and content.

The context-dependence of an artifact is not even medium-specific, as Goodman would suggest.
Texts are more allographic than handbags and paintings, but Vermeers and Louis Vuitton purses
are also in some sense perfectly reproducible, like texts.

Technologies like 3D scanning and printing increasingly reduce physical objects to their
textual representation, as is the case with the stereo lithographic document (STL) format that
describes objects for 3D printing.  Here, for example, I reproduce code that describes "a
surface" of a functional gun (the code made available online by *Defense Distributed*, a
self-described civic liberty activist group):

```
22=(
BOUNDED_SURFACE()
B_SPLINE_SURFACE(1,2,((#34104,#34105,#34106),(#34107,#34108,#34109)),
 .UNSPECIFIED.,.F.,.F.,.F.)
B_SPLINE_SURFACE_WITH_KNOTS((2,2),(3,3),(15.1641909236141,15.3257778193699),
(2.99329024107099,3.14159265358979),.UNSPECIFIED.)
GEOMETRIC_REPRESENTATION_ITEM()
RATIONAL_B_SPLINE_SURFACE(((1.,0.997252058758362,1.),(1.,0.997252058758362,
1.)))
REPRESENTATION_ITEM('')
SURFACE()
);
```

This piece of code exists in its Platonic ideal *before* the physical artifact.  As costs of
reproduction approach zero, so does the line between an object and its description. Imagine a
world where to think "gun" is also to seamlessly bring one into existence. The erosion of
boundaries between object and idea has a pronounced effect on the governance of goods, felt
precisely at the distinction between the autographic and the allographic. Governments currently
regulate the manufacture and the distribution of guns as artifacts, but how does one regulate
guns as texts and ideas? Any such effort amounts to censorship. What was first regulated under
the regime of property law, now increasingly falls under the regimes of intellectual property
and rights to speech. Where does that leave the practice of textual criticism? In such a world
there can be no distinction between works and texts. Unlike millions of reproduced Vermeers
(which no doubt occupy this world in the form of postcards, posters, and photographs), text is
text. It lies before us in glorious flatness, as thick as a sheet of paper.

## Lahore

In March of 2018, 

vault
bertrand russel
book bazaar

## American Dirt

Bodily and social contexts.

## Guns, Handbags, and Vodka

